[back to index](/README.md) | [next](/docs/2.md)

# Step One - Use Create React App to create a boilerplate React project

You’ll need to make sure you have a relatively recent version of Node.js installed on your machine. The most recent version as of this writing is 14.x.

Node will automatically install NPM, the Node Package Manager. You can then use NPM to install all of the other libraries talked about below.

With Node and NPM installed, navigate via the command line to the directory within which you want to put the project. Next, run the following commands in sequence:

```
 npx create-react-app my-app
 cd my-app
 code .
```

The first command will install all of the directories and files you’ll need for the moment. **The installation will take a while** and you’ll see lots of information printed to your screen. Don’t worry about the warnings. The second command takes us to the new directory. The last command tells your system to open the current directory in VS Code. You can substitute another code editor if you like.

From within your code editor, the file structure should look like this:

```
 node_modules/
 public/
 src/
 .gitignore
 package.json
 package-lock.json
 README.md
```

The directories you’ll work with most are the top level and the src/ directories. Get familiar with the structure and files. And don’t worry if you feel a bit lost at the moment. Things will become clearer.

Next, from the command line, run:

```
 npm start
```

This will start a development server that will serve your React installation. Open your browser and in the address bar, type in localhost:3000. The site should load with some React boilerplate.

NOTE: The NPM start script can be found in package.json. You can create other scripts in the same place. Other scripts will require a slightly different syntax to start. Use `npm run myScript`.

These are the scripts that come with the Create React App installation.

```js
"scripts": {
   "start": "react-scripts start",
   "build": "react-scripts build",
   "test": "react-scripts test",
   "eject": "react-scripts eject",
 },
```

If you'd like to learn more about those scripts, we suggest reading the README.md file in your project's root directory.
