[back to index](/README.md) | [prev](/docs/1.md) | [next](/docs/3.md)

# Step 2 - Set up the Express server

Now run:

```
 npm i express
```

This will install the Express package. You’ll see some more information printed to your screen.

Next, create a new file at the top level (i.e. as a sibling of package.json, README.md, etc.) called server.js.

Open server.js and paste in the following stripped down Express server script:

```js
// server.js

// Use Node's require method to import the Express package
const express = require("express");

// Instantiate an instance of Express
const app = express();

// Create a route that handles a GET request for the homepage. The first parameter is the route. The second is the route handler. We pass the route handler the HTTP request and response objects and use Express's send() method to send a line of text back to the browser.
app.get("/", function (req, res) {
	res.send("Welcome to the homepage.");
});

// Tell Express to listen to port 8080
app.listen(process.env.PORT || 8080);
```

Next, open package.json and at the top level, the same level as things like “name” and “version,” insert the line:

```js
"proxy": "http://localhost:8080"
```

It's important that you don't accidentally insert that line within an object, e.g. don't accidentally insert it in "dependencies" or "scripts".

You’re almost ready to start the Express server, but first you need to install Nodemon. Nodemon is a package that will update your Express server when you make changes to any files. Using Nodemon, you won’t have to manually stop and restart the server every time you make a change.

```
 npm i nodemon
```

Now open package.json again and insert a new script in the scripts object:

```js
"server": "nodemon server.js --inspect --unhandled-rejections=strict"
```

NOTE: Installing Nodemon was necessary to avoid stopping and restarting our Express server every time we make a change, but you should note that this extra step was not necessary for our React server. This feature is built into Create React App applications by default.

You can now start the Express server with:

```
 npm run server
```

Open your browser and in the address bar, type in localhost:8080. The page should load, and you should see the “Welcome to the homepage” message. 

This may be a bit confusing. Didn't we just use React to serve a different homepage on port 3000? Yes, we did. So why are we serving two different homepages to two different ports? Great question! For now, it suffices to say that the React front-end is our real front-end. The page we're serving from our Express server simply confirms that the server is working. Later on, our Express server will serve an API with which our React front-end will communicate.


